Liz if you haven't seen this fantastic
documentary I'm mr. Rogers I highly
recommend it it's even one of our
favorite elimedia tits I've talked about
how influential mr. Rogers was for me
growing up that I had myself three good
cardigans ready to go at all times but
as bias as I may come out for the show I
was really skeptical when I heard they
were going to be making a movie see Jim
Carrey's kidding show that's one thing
but someone trying to embody Rogers
himself I just couldn't see it
I couldn't fat Lee's boat you be my
neighbor oh okay on top of that they got
Mariel Heller who already has two great
features under her belt
they got the approval of the Rogers
estate mrs. Rogers even gave Hank all of
Fred's actual ties for the movie and
wouldn't you know it miss Joann Rogers
let them know that Hanks was in fact mr.
Rogers favorite actor I think that Fred
saw was it Forrest Gump in the movie
theater 40 times
she said Tom Hanks was my favorite act
was his favorite actor he loved him so
much and it it all come from big he had
loved big boy you really got the essence
of childhood right I'll say this Mary
O'Halloran get nominated for directing
because if she's not I'm not lying I'm
not covering the Oscars because when I
caught this at TIFF I came out thinking
that Mary oh hello really just recreate
a feature-length episode of mr. Rogers
neighborhood and then I heard we filmed
on these Ikegami cameras these two
cameras that were just like the original
cameras they filmed the real program on
we had a live feed going to these
monitors and then we were filming on a
digital Alexa camera so turns out she
did let me explain so the story is based
on Tom Geno's the Esquire piece on mr.
Rogers that came out in 1998 but the
movie itself swaps Tom for the fictional
journalist Lloyd Vogel who in the first
15 minutes of the mr. Rogers feature
film gets into a fistfight with his
father just a joke to you
that's when I knew we actually had a
movie though cuz see when it comes to
Mister Rogers I think a lot of people
would like to see him as soft or very
quiet but his show always covered things
darker than Lloyd's right eye is a
summation me so with Lloyd being the
main character of the movie it
technically makes Hanks portrayal of
Fred a supporting role which you know
supporting that's just like mr. Rogers
what's crazy is that Hanks originally
passed on the role until Haller
convinced him to do it proving even
further that she's a master at her craft
to the point that she's directing actors
before the shoot even starts oh I just
read this interesting article the New
York Times about female directors have
you seen it
and she said I'm in it please let me
remove my shoe from my mouth one of the
things that's always motivated me
besides the kindness and mr. Rogers and
everything that he showed through his
work and his everyday life
are the people who waited his work guide
his everyday life realizing people are
always going to hate you know just I
hate even in the case of someone like
mr. Rogers I think that's an extremely
important lesson and something that all
that'll take so much weight off of your
shoulders
Fred embracing those people though yo
that's a saint nobody from Fred's camp
of people likes it when we refer to him
as a saint and it was sort of the first
thing people would say is oh man he was
a saint and she was the one who really
said you know if you think of him as a
saint he's not accessible it's something
that we can't attain if if we're viewing
him as a saint and you need to know he
wasn't he was a person I know I know but
like come on the Rogers estate never
sold any merch so then opening up the
archives for the writers of this movie
allowing him to go through every single
letter to make a better picture that's a
big deal they remade the trolleys from
the original set and had them running
all throughout production they shot it
in Pittsburgh in that same studio with
the same cameras and cap down every
little detail from handed sweaters to
the buttons on the puppets and then
turned it into a feature-length episode
of Mister Rogers neighborhood for adults
and even with any creative liberties ant
constant back and forth with mrs. Rogers
and really the city of Pittsburgh I was
going up in the elevator one day and all
the Pittsburgh knows you're there
shooting a movie there
but he's very cool about it and just as
the elevator was cool he got out before
me just the elevator was closing he said
to me you know we take mr. Rogers very
seriously he was a veiled threat yeah
again it's fictional so no mr. Rogers
didn't visit someone with a PI in their
deathbed at least that we know of but
Fred asking the father to pray for him
was actually based on real Fred's visit
with a boy with cerebral palsy who he
felt must be very close to God and he
always sought out that innocence
regardless of the person's background
every interview within the movie feels
like a therapy session that Lloyd finds
himself in three questions too late
Heller is able to capture every single
character's emotion within a scene
regardless of how packed it is like she
just knows how to convey everybody's
headspace something she did incredibly
well in Diary of a teenage girl and now
she's directed a pretty much universally
beloved movie on one of the most
universally beloved beams my secret is
Tom Hanks didn't actually know that I
was focusing on him for this scene he
thought we were really just focusing on
Daniel Tiger and lady aberlin and the
scene as it was being captured for the
program Heller also fought for French
hour days which pretty much is a
schedule that allows the crew to be able
to see their families which if you've
ever worked in a production man that's
not a hassle it's it's obsolete Nolan's
practically made every one of his movies
as a love letter to not being there for
his kids shooting shorter hours where
you don't take a lunch break and you
push through and you shoot the entire
day for me as a parent that makes this
life more sustainable and I believe it's
one way to get more women behind the
camera is if we don't have these totally
unsustainable lives where we work 16 to
18 hour days overall I think the reason
it works is simple they can't so many
times we see biopics that try to overly
glorify the subject or make them an icon
or drag them down but just like with the
documentary and with his own show mr.
Rogers has always been about paying it
forward
he was always less concerned about being
the hero than he was making sure you had
a here
guiding you there mom your dad a sibling
or a teacher anyone who can make your
day beautiful if someone comes into the
office to talk to the medicine they're
not to talk about him
they're coming in to talk about
themselves and that's what he was always
able to get he had somebody to do to
talk about this it was always the idea
that a neighborhood looks out for each
other and cares for each other
Hanks who's been in our screens for
decades recognize that and somehow
transformed even further for this role
the way they filmed on-location and
embraced the beautiful city that is
Pittsburgh and Heller said in general
embodied that neighborhood Rogers always
talked about when I made this movie I
said Fred Rogers would have never wanted
us to make a movie about him where we
had to abandon our children in order to
make this movie so let's figure out
another way so to come at it from the
angle of a cynical journalist of a
father to be who feels beat down that
was just perfect because he too belongs
in the neighborhood see it as a message
of forgiveness see it as an awareness of
kindness or just a good movie in the end
I thought it embodied Rogers quote that
anything that's mentioning is also
manageable thank you guys for checking
out this video and I'm curious to know
your thoughts down below in the comment
section you know they say only greats
can play the greats and I entered the
shot from the end of the street with a
submachine gun and I butchered 12 guys
and shot Paul Newman dead
and I thought god I hope it get to plate
mr. Rogers some day I'm curious about
this movie down below in the comments
section please please watch a
documentary have and I hope you really
enjoy that one it's one of one of our
favorite documentaries on that year
specifically just cuz it was such an
interesting game like Fred responded to
every letter he ever received that's
insane to me that's what you've got
reactions like this it's amazing what
they were comfortable sharing with Fred
what do you think about this how can I
deal with this and Fred did respond to
every letter that came in it's very rare
that you get people like that you know
like I think of Bob Ross I think of mr.
Rogers like you don't know who is that
today you know but other than that I'm
curious on your thoughts what resonated
for you in the movie let me know your
heroes and until next time don't forget
to comment like and subscribe and
protect review bra at all times